WIP: Starknet Snap Rough Skeleton (#1509)
MetaMask/metamask-docs: wallet/how-to/use-non-evm-networks/starknet/about-get-starknet.md

---
description: Learn about how `get-starknet` interacts with MetaMask.
sidebar_position: 8
---

# About `get-starknet`

[`get-starknet`](https://github.com/starknet-io/get-starknet) is a library that simplifies Starknet
network interactions.
It works with the [Starknet Snap](https://snaps.metamask.io/snap/npm/consensys/starknet-snap/) to
enable dapps to interact with users' Starknet accounts in MetaMask.

> 

Author: Thanks @stanleyyconsensys . Sorry I thought I responded to this. I am adding this with Figma

When you integrate `get-starknet` into your dapp, it creates a `WalletAccount` object, which acts as
the connection between the dapp and MetaMask, and manages Starknet interactions.
This allows users to send Starknet transactions, sign Starknet messages, and manage Starknet
accounts within MetaMask, and this functionality can be extended to multiple wallets in the Starknet

> ecosystem.

Author: @khanti42 so should I remove instances and all mentions of `WalletAccount`?  I also have it in the diagram, should that be removed as well?

> ecosystem.

Reviewer: yea, the fact is,
in get-starknet 3.3.0, user will communicate with network via SWO.account
in get-starknet 4.x user can communicate with network via SWO.account or make their own implementation with WalletAccount object

and we will try to do the advice comment on all WalletAccount , including the description , and you can help us to revised to better wording later, wdyt?

## How `get-starknet` and MetaMask interact

A dapp with `get-starknet` installed interacts with MetaMask as follows:

1. The dapp uses `get-starknet` to request the user connect to MetaMask.
   MetaMask automatically requests the user to add the Starknet Snap, if it's not already present.

> 1. After the dapp is connected to MetaMask and the Starknet Snap, `get-starknet` receives a Starknet

Author: @stanleyyconsensys Sorry that's not a typo. The markdown will increment. If you check the Vercel build it will show sequential numbering.  I just chose to do it like that in case we add or remove another step - that way we will not have to renumber everything ;)

   Windows Object (SWO), which represents the MetaMask wallet with Starknet functionality.

> 1. `get-starknet` creates a [`WalletAccount`](http://starknetjs.com/docs/guides/walletAccount/) instance.

Author: I think I can rework this to: 

```suggestion
1. You can retrieve an [Account Object](https://starknetjs.com/docs/API/#account) from the Starknet Windows Object (SWO) when you access `swo.account`. This Account Object enables you to manage Starknet interactions.
```

   This instance manages the Starknet account within MetaMask.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant dapp as Dapp
    participant get as get-starknet
    participant mm as MetaMask
    participant Snap as Starknet Snap
    participant network as Starknet network
    
    dapp->>get: Initialize connection
    get->>mm: Request connection
    mm->>Snap: Activate
    Snap-->>mm: Activated
    mm-->>get: Return SWO

>     get->>network: Create WalletAccount

Author: Thank you for updating

    get-->>dapp: Connection established
    
    dapp->>get: Read blockchain data
    get->>network: Query data
    network-->>get: Return data
    get-->>dapp: Processed data
    

>     dapp->>get: Write transaction

Author: like this ?...

sequenceDiagram
    participant dapp
    participant get
    participant mm
    participant Snap
    participant user

    dapp->>get: Write transaction
    get->>mm: Request write transaction
    mm->>Snap: Check if account is deployed

    alt Account not deployed
        Snap-->>mm: Account not deployed
        mm->>Snap: Deploy account and write transaction
    else Account already deployed
        Snap-->>mm: Account already deployed
        mm->>Snap: Write transaction only
    end

    Snap-->>mm: Request confirmation to write transaction
    mm-->>user: Request confirmation
    user-->>mm: Confirm transaction
    mm-->>Snap: Confirm transaction

    get->>mm: Request signature
    mm->>Snap: Sign transaction
    Snap-->>mm: Signed transaction
    mm-->>get: Return signature
    get->>network: Submit transaction
    network-->>get: Transaction result
    get-->>dapp: Transaction confirmation
```

> The `get-starknet` library offers several features that improve how dapps interact with the Starknet
> network through MetaMask:
> 
> - The `WalletAccount` uses a specified provider to access data from the Starknet network.
> - For transactions, `get-starknet` prepares the data and sends it to MetaMask for signing through
>   the Starknet Snap.
> - `get-starknet` enables the dapp to create contract instances connected to the `WalletAccount`,
>   allowing smart contract functions to be invoked, with MetaMask handling the signatures.
> - `get-starknet` sets up listeners for account and network changes in MetaMask, so the dapp can
>   subscribe and update its state accordingly.
> - `get-starknet` can request network changes through MetaMask, allowing users to switch between
>   Starknet networks, such as Mainnet and Sepolia testnet.
> - `get-starknet` can also request MetaMask to display specific tokens, improving the user experience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `get-starknet` library offers several features that improve how dapps interact with the Starknet
network through MetaMask:

- `get-starknet` enable [EIP-6963](https://metamask.io/news/developers/how-to-implement-eip-6963-support-in-your-web-3-dapp/) by default, hence to support  multi-wallet discovery in the dapp.
- The `Account Object` in `Starknet Window Object (SWO))` provide the functionality as [Starknet.js Account Object](https://starknetjs.com/docs/API/#account) to manage Starknet interactions, it bridges the request from the dapp to MetaMask and the Starknet Snap automately.
- `get-starknet` can request network changes through MetaMask, allowing users to switch between
  Starknet networks, such as Mainnet and Sepolia testnet.
- `get-starknet` can also request MetaMask to display specific tokens, improving the user experience.
```

not sure if the last open point is valid or not (`get-starknet` can also request MetaMask to display specific tokens...), 
if it means fetch token balance , then it is , 
if it means display token in MM wallet, then it is not
